Let's talk about subqueries and arrays.
So, I showed you one more,
it's really simple.
You're making a subquery, it's going
to return exactly one ID, right?
And that works because
there's just one result.
What happens if there's
a set that's coming back?
Well, you can do that.
There is a data type inside
of Postgres called array,
which we can use to
model a set of results.
So let's say for
example, you wanna see all the keywords
associated with any Star Wars movie.
You could do joins, you could have rows,
you could do rows per keyword, but
that would be a really annoying.
It'd be a very, you'd get into a pretty
hairy query pretty quickly, hairy query.
[LAUGH] I don't know why this never
occurred to me before, I'm sure that's
not funny to someone else but
at this time of day it's very funny to me.
Anyway, hairy queries,
You're gonna end up with this mess and
you're gonna have to do some aggregation,
it's gonna turn into a mess quickly.
A subquery with an array constructor
can do that a lot better.
So let's go ahead and
write that all together.
I'm gonna do it over here because
it's gonna be just easier to look at.
So we're going to select,
I'm gonna select m.name for
movie name and
then we're gonna make an array here.
This is an array kind of constructor
sort of thing from Postgres.
You're going to give it a list of rows and
it's gonna turn that into
a data type that it can use.
So, I'm going to select
English category name.
FROM, english_category_names,
that's the name of that view that
we made in the previous, Lesson.
INNER JOIN, Movie_keywords
mk ON mk.category_id =
ecn.category_ id, cool.
WHERE, not white wine vinaigrette,
WHERE m.id equals mk.movie-id.
Now notice the fascinating thing here, I
have not referenced movie in my subquery.
It's gonna be outside of the subquery
that I can reference it in the subquery,
which that's totally okay.
Totally kosher to do.
And I'm gonna give it a limit of five.
I don't want all of the categories
I just want the first five, so
I'm gonna give a limit of five here just
to make this a little bit more tame, and
then I'm gonna call that keywords.
And then I'm gonna say,
I want that FROM movies m,
WHERE name ILIKE, star wars.
All right, I'll come back and
recap this, but
let's run it make sure that I'm not
off my rocker more so than normal.
So you can see here I have Star Wars,
A New Hope.
And it has the first five keywords
associated with it, Prophecy,
Bauernhof, obviously, Orphan,
Good and Evil, Android.
Empire Strikes Back,
Spoiler Alerts, Father and
Son Relationship, Rebel,
Bounty hunter, Monster and obviously,
The classic Shnee,
which you do not know what that means.
I'm assuming it's German [LAUGH].
You can see Clone Wars here,
this is probably the TV show has no
categories associated with it but
Empire Episode 1,
Die dunkel Bedrohung has Underwater and
Warrior associated with it.
So first of all curly braces here
that means array in Postgres terms.
Some of these that only have one word are,
don't need quotes, the ones that have
to words are right and there's spaces
in there, they put quotes around those.
And that's what this is,
this is an array that we're returning
as one top level data type.
And again, you can mess around with this,
if I did this with three,
it would obviously give me less keywords.
All right, so
now I'm getting less keywords.
Yeah, and again, to call attention to
that we have WHERE m.id = movie_id.
Notice the movie here is coming from
movies here, not from the subquery,
but from the outer query.
Totally okay to do it that way.
These kinds of queries can get really
expensive cuz you can think like,
this is not cheap.
This has an inner join in it, right?
And you can quickly spiral out of controls
of doing subqueries within subqueries
within subqueries.
It depends if you have,
a performance tolerance for that.